---title: "About me" layout: single excerpt: "CV" sitemap: true permalink: /about/  ---# XIANG SUNDepartment of Chemistry, University of Michigan  930 N University Ave, Ann Arbor, MI 48109  ### Education  * **Ph. D.** Theoretical Chemistry, Brown University, Providence, RI 02912 USA, 2014* **M. A.** Chemistry, Brown University, Providence, RI 02912 USA, 2010 * **B. Sc.** Chemical Physics, University of Science and Technology of China (USTC), Hefei, Anhui, China, 2008### Research Experiences* _Postdoctoral Research Fellow_, Department of Chemistry, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, 2014-2017.  Advisor: **Eitan Geva**  Project: Photo-induced charge transfer dynamics via the linearized semiclassical method.  Derived the nonequilibrium Fermi’s Golden Rule charge transfer rate expressions via thelinearized semiclassical method. The new expressions open the door to applications to complexcondensed-phase molecular systems described by anharmonic force fields. Proved that thelinearized semiclassical formula yields the exact fully quantum path integral results for thecanonical Marcus model, where the coupling between donor and acceptor is constant and thepotential energy surfaces are identical parabolas except for a shift in the equilibrium energy andgeometry. Comprehensive comparison between the nonequilibrium Fermi’s Golden Rule and ahierarchy of approximations, including mixed quantum-classical Liouville, Ehrenfest and surfacehopping were performed over a wide range of parameters.* _Visiting Scientist_, Department of Chemistry, Colorado State University, Fort Collins, CO, 2014.  Advisor: **Branka M. Ladanyi**  Project: Structure, dynamics and solvation in heterogeneous environments.  Performed molecular dynamics simulation of dye Coumarin 153 in acetonitrile, and constructedthe effective molecular polarizability model for ground and first excited solute from the input of _abinitio_ quantum chemistry calculations. Demonstrated that the polarizability of the excited solute onthe solute-pump/solvent-probe spectroscopy reflect the change of solution dynamics upon thephoto-excitation of the solute.* _Graduate Research Assistant_, Department of Chemistry, Brown University, 2009-2014.  Advisor: **Richard M. Stratt**  Project: Developing a molecular theory for solute-pump/solvent-probe spectroscopy.   Developed the molecular theory of a novel 2D nonlinear optical spectroscopy usingnonequilibrium statistical mechanics and calculated via molecular dynamics simulation. Discoverednew local structural information revealed by the 2D spectra provides an alternative route tosolvation dynamics, which is different from the energetic relaxation measured in a time-dependentfluorescence spectroscopy. * _Undergraduate Research Assistant_, Hefei National Laboratory for Physical Sciences at theMicroscale and Department of Chemical Physics, USTC, China，2007-2008.  Advisor: **Shan-Xi Tian**  Project: _Ab initio_ molecular dynamics simulation of the ionization dynamics of water trimer.    ### Teaching Experiences* _Teaching Assistant_, CHEM 0330: Equilibrium, Rate and Structure, Department of Chemistry,Brown University, 2008-2012. Lead lab sessions (36 students each semester), give pre-lectures on experiments, grade reports and exams, and hold regular office hours for students taking CHEM 0330.* _Lecturer_, Training course of National Chemistry Olympiad for High-school Students,Electrochemistry, Henan, China, 2005. Give lectures on inorganic chemistry at the college level to about40 excellent high school students.### Awards and Honors* Sigma Xi Award for Excellence in Research, Brown University, 2013.* Dissertation Fellowship, Brown University, 2012.* University Fellowship for First-year Students, Brown University, 2009.* Excellent Graduate Student of USTC, 2008.* MEDY Scholarship, USTC, 2007.* Outstanding Student Scholarship, USTC, 2006.### Publications1. Alexei A. Kananenka, **Xiang Sun**, Alexander Schubert, Barry D. Dunietz, Eitan Geva, Comparisonstudy of nonequilibrium Fermi’s Golden Rule and mixed quantum-classical methods fornon-adiabatic dynamics in the condensed phase (to be submitted in 2016).2. **Xiang Sun**, Eitan Geva, Non-Condon Nonequilibrium Fermi’s Golden Rule Rates from theLinearized Semiclassical method, J. Chem. Phys. 145, 064109 (2016).3. **Xiang Sun**, Eitan Geva, Non-Condon Equilibrium Fermi’s Golden Rule Electronic Transition RateConstants via the Linearized Semiclassical method, J. Chem. Phys. 144, 244105 (2016).4. **Xiang Sun**, Eitan Geva, Nonequilibrium Fermi’s Golden Rule Charge Transfer Rates via theLinearized Semiclassical Method, J. Chem. Theory Comput. 12, 2926-2941 (2016).5. **Xiang Sun**, Eitan Geva, Exact vs. Asymptotic Spectral Densities in the Garg-Onuchic-AmbegaokarCharge Transfer Model and its Effect on Fermi's Golden Rule Rate Constants, J. Chem. Phys. 144,044106 (2016).6. **Xiang Sun**, Eitan Geva, Equilibrium Fermi’s Golden Rule Charge Transfer Rate Constants in theCondensed Phase: The Linearized Semiclassical Method vs. Classical Marcus Theory, J. Phys.Chem. A, 120, 2976-2990 (2016).7. **Xiang Sun**, Branka M. Ladanyi, Richard M. Stratt, Effects of electronic-state-dependent solutepolarizability: application to solute-pump/solvent-probe spectra, J. Phys. Chem. B 119, 9129-9139(2015), **(2014 American Chemical Society Editors’ Choice Article)**.8. **Xiang Sun**, Richard M. Stratt, How a solute-pump/solvent-probe spectroscopy can reveal structuraldynamics: Polarizability response spectra as a two-dimensional solvation spectroscopy, J. Chem.Phys. 139, 044506 (2013).9. **Xiang Sun**, Richard M. Stratt, The molecular underpinnings of a Solute-pump/solvent-probeSpectroscopy: The theory of polarizability response spectra and an application to preferentialsolvation, Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 14, 6320-6331 (2012).10. Shan-Xi Tian, **Xiang Sun**, Rui Cao, Jinlong Yang, Thermal stabilities of the microhydratedzwitterionic glycine: A kinetics and dynamics study, J. Phys. Chem. A 113, 480-483 (2009).### Presentations* Talk. Xiang Sun and Eitan Geva, Photo-induced charge transfer dynamics via the linearized semiclassical method, Theory and Application of Computational Chemistry, Seattle, Washington, Aug 28-Sep 2, 2016.* Poster. Xiang Sun and Eitan Geva, Photo-induced charge transfer dynamics via the linearized semiclassical method, Penn Conference in Theoretical Chemistry, Philadelphia, July 29-31, 2015.* Invited talk, Physical Chemistry Seminar, Columbia University, New York, November 20, 2014.* Poster. Xiang Sun, Branka M. Ladanyi, Richard M. Stratt, Solute-pump/solvent-probe spectroscopy, Poster session, American Conference on Theoretical Chemistry, Telluride, Colorado, July 20-25, 2014.* Invited talk. Theory of solute-pump/solvent-probe spectroscopy and an application to preferential solvation, School of Chemistry and Materials Science, University of Science and Technology of China, Hefei, China, March 27, 2013.* Talk. Xiang Sun and Richard M. Stratt, Theory of solute-pump/solvent-probe spectroscopy and an application to preferential solvation, Symposium of solvent dynamics at biomolecular interfaces: experiment and theory, the 244th ACS national meeting, Philadelphia, PA, August 19-23, 2012.### Certifications* High-Impact Principles and Practices for STEM Education, Rackham School of Graduate Studiesand the Center for Research on Learning and Teaching (CRLT) at the University of Michigan, 2015.* High-Performance Computing Certificate I, Center for Computation and Visualization, BrownUniversity, 2012.### Skills* High performance computing: C/C++ with MPI parallel computing, Python and Linux shell scripting.* Theoretical Chemistry: Solvation, Energy Relaxation, Energy and Charge Transfer Dynamics.* Nonlinear spectroscopy: theory and simulation.* Quantum Dynamics: Ehrenfest, Surface hopping, Mixed quantum-classical Liouville, Linearized path integral.* Molecular Dynamics Simulation: C/C++ code, DL_POLY, Amber.* Electronic Structure Calculation: Gaussian09, Q-Chem.### Professional Affiliations* American Chemical Society* Sigma XiUpdated Oct. 2016